My apologies there. This is the meeting of the RM Springfield planning meeting for April the 24th of 2025. We are starting at 6pm. I'm Mayor Patrick Terrian. Everybody is present, all of the council. I'll introduce them. To my right is Deputy Mayor, Councillor Glenn Fuel. Next is Councillor Andy Kaczynski. Next is Councillor Mark Miller. Next will be Melinda Warren. If I can get, we'll move into this right away. It's a pretty short agenda. Approval of the agenda. Can I get a mover and a seconder for that too? These are Mark and Glenn. Any additions to the agenda? I see none. Can I get a show of hands of those in support? That's unanimous. Therefore carried. Adoption of the minutes there. Can I get a mover and a seconder for 4.1 please? Melinda and Glenn. Whereas the minutes of the council meeting held January 23rd, 2025 have been previously distributed to council, be it resolved that the same BNR hereby approved as amended. Remove on item 5.3, the chair closed the evidentiary portion of the meeting. Questions, additions from council? I see none. I get a show of hands of those in support of the adoption 4.1 That's unanimous and is therefore carried. We'll go to 4.2 of planning minutes for March the 27th of 2025. Mover and a seconder, please. Glenn and Andy. Whereas the minutes of the council meeting held March 27th, 2025 have been previously distributed to council, be it resolved that the same B&R hereby approved. As read by our CEO, any questions or additions from council? I see none. Can I get a show of hands of those in support? That is unanimous and therefore is carried. We'll get into the public hearing portion now. I'll have to read the following into the record. Procedures for public hearings under the Planning Act. Public hearings matters will now be heard under the Planning Act. The public hearing process is as follows. One is a public notice will be read out indicating the intent of the application. Number two, the development officer will provide a summary and information pertaining to the proposal. Number three, those that wish to make representations speaking on the planning matter must sign in. You'll be given an opportunity to make a presentation or speak on the matter presented before council. Opportunities for presentation or to speak on a matter will be in the following order. A is the applicant will speak or make presentation on the proposed application. B, inquiries. This will give the opportunity to ask for clarification on what the planning matter is proposed. And C is those in favor. This will give those in favor the opportunity to speak. And last will be those in opposition. This will give those that are in opposition the opportunity to speak. When you begin speaking, please state your name and address. Reminder to at all times speak to the chair myself. And four, once everyone has had an opportunity to speak, council may close the public hearing on the matter, after which further input from the public will not be permitted for the legal reasons. It is important that if you wish to speak and be heard on the planning matter, Now is the time to make representation. Again, once I have closed the public hearing, no further discussions will be allowed. With that being read, we'll go to 5.1, and that will be variance under 25.04 under Potter. Mover and a seconder for that, please. Mark and Andy. We have zoning variance 25-09. The proposal is to permit a side yard setback of 34 feet instead of the required 50 feet, and a rear yard setback of 37 feet instead of the required 50 feet, with the construction of an attached garage as per section 83.44.5 within the AR Agricultural Restricted Zoning District. This is located at 67068 Vernon Road in the southeast quarter of 8125. Mr. Potter is requesting Council's approval for the reduced side yard and rear yard setbacks, again, for the construction of an attached garage to the dwelling. Based on the submission provided in the site inspection conducted, I have no concerns with the placement of the attached garage in reference to the property lines attached to the dwelling unit. If Council were to consider this variation, I would offer the following condition. Number one, that the applicant obtain the required municipal building permits. Thank you, Mayor Terrian. Thank you, Mr. Doucette. Would the applicant, Stephen or Melanie Potter, be present or online? Mr. Potter, you heard what Mr. Doucette said. Is there anything more you want to add to that? Okay, so I'll say that's a no then. Okay, ordinarily we'd have it come up here, but you already said no, I'm satisfied with that. Then what we'll do, we'll open it up to the public portion here for inquiries, those online or in the audience. You just came in, sir, are you having anything to do with Mr. Potter at all for inquiries or anything? Okay, then we'll, I see nothing in the audience or online. Then I'll open it up for those in favor and or those in opposition in the audience or online and I don't see anybody. So at this time here, I'll open it up to council. Any questions at all from council? Mark? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just have a question for the proponent or Mr. Potter, if possible, yeah? You have a very unique property and a very nice location. I've been to it, as you know, and you expressed to me, I think behind you is a gravel or an aggregate pit. Have you seen, and with this proposed garage, do you foresee any problems with loiterers or people who ought not to be there? In other words, before you have expressed, and it's quite evident because of the transmission line and because of the pit behind you, that you do get people just curious to see what's down there, so to speak, right? So are you going to be prepared to have that continue to happen? In other words, I want to make sure you're safeguarded for your property. So... Yeah, the way that we have it in our chart, I know you can't necessarily see this, but it looks like the garage itself will go... There we go. Now I'm unmuted. Yeah, it looks like the garage is kind of going towards the transmission line, which is fine. But again, I just know that you've expressed and others have expressed, again, the lingering of people. And I just want to make sure that you have the appropriate security measures in place for any vandals or any other abusive behavior that might take place there. I appreciate you asking. So now I understand where you're going with it. So we leased that whole hydro section there. So then I told them, I said, can I put up a gate here? And they're like, yeah, as long as we can unlock it. So I put up a little rope for now with reflective stripes on it. And then I cut the rope. Like I actually cut it and the neighbor watched me and then I cut it on the other end. So if anyone ever hits it, it'll just break right away. So it's sort of hanging by a thread. So we did that and then we set up some cameras and recorder like a Rio link and so forth. So it's pretty good. Occasionally we get some motion in the middle of the night, but so far nothing nefarious, just bears and deers. And so it's kind of calmed down now that the place is occupied. It's definitely dropped off. When we first were building there, there was a lot. So we were speaking with the RCMP and Springfield police a lot because people were showing up to party. But now the word is out. So it seems to be a lot better. Excellent. And I wanted to reassure you that definitely use that resource, the Springfield police to chase out any vagrants or anybody else that ought not to be there. Because we want to, of course, have a safe community, not only at your place, but in the aggregate pits that are adjacent to you. I joined the COPP at our last meeting there. So that was kind of nice to listen. And to the officer speak and meet some of the other people that are keeping an eye, so yeah, thank you very much. No, and I appreciate that. And definitely keep Councillor Mee as your councillor and prize, because if there's concerns, we want to make sure that all residents are safeguarded against that kind of nonsense. No, I appreciate it. And I'm still in touch with the gravel pit owners there. So I had made a bit of a deal with one of them. I said, every time I drive through, I'll pick up some garbage, as long as you're okay that I drive through once in a while. He said, okay, as long as you're picking up garbage. So the boys at the dump now know that I will bring tires and whatever I find there. And actually last time they said, well, we don't accept railway ties, and then they changed. So whatever we had said here changed it. So now they accept the railway ties and whatever I bring in. So they're really good. So it's actually getting cleaner back there. I won't be moving concrete, but any of the movable garbage will get moved. I have to say you're the perfect neighbor. So I encourage you to keep that rapport with them and with us in a community. So thank you very much. Okay. Any other questions from Council? I see none. And if we're prepared to read it, we can vote. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes. There's no other questions from Council and I'm satisfied. Everybody has been heard in public here. I'm prepared to close the public hearing. No further question will be allowed. We can do the reading. We can vote. Whereas the public hearing has been conducted under the Planning Act to consider an application filed by Steve Potter, owner of the property located at 67068 Vernon Road for a variation of the Springfield Zoning By-law number 0801. Whereas Council is satisfied that the requirements of Part 6 variances has been met, be it resolved that variation order number 2509 be granted subject to the one condition. Thank you. With that being read, can I get a show of hands of those in support? That is unanimous and it is carried. Thank you, Mr. Potter. We'll go to 5.2. That's a variance under Kaufman. Can I get a mover and a seconder, please? Patrick and Melinda. We have zoning variance 25-11. The proposal is to permit the business fascia sign to be erected on the west side of the wall of the building, not facing a public street as per table 33-31, and the business sign having a maximum letter height of 1.16 meters being 3.83 feet instead of the required 0.6 meters being 1.97 feet as per section 33-33 within the MB industrial business zoning district. This is located at 38 Sunflower Close within the southwest quarter of 29-10-4. Mr. Kaufman, on behalf of Electra Signs Limited, is requesting council's approval to allow for the signage to have an increased letter height on their business fascia sign and to erect the fascia sign on the west side of the wall of the existing industrial building. As per section 33-3 states, fascia signs shall not have letters over 0.6 meters in height and which exceed 80% of the building width. Under table 33-31 of the zoning by-law, fascia signs are only permitted on the wall facing the public street. Based on the site inspection, I have no concerns with the increased letter height on the fascia sign or the placement of the signage on the west side of the existing industrial building. If council were to consider this variation, I would offer the following condition. Number one, that the applicant obtain the required municipal permits. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Deschutes. There would Mr. Andy Kaufman be in the audience or online. I don't see that he's present here. Then we'll open it up to the public hearing portion for inquiries. Those in the audience are online. I don't see any here. Then I'll open it up for both those in favor and those in opposition and or those in the audience. None of those online. I don't see any. Then open it up to Council. Any questions at all with regards to 5.2? I see no questions. Then I'm satisfied the public hearing portion has been satisfied and that no further questions will be allowed and their law will close to the hearing portion and then I can get it read and we can vote. Whereas a public hearing has been conducted under the Planning Act to consider an application filed by Andy Kaufman on behalf of 10159536 Manitoba Inc., owner of the property located at 38 Sunflower Close for a variation of the Springfield Zoning By-law number 0801. Whereas Council is satisfied that the requirements of Part 6 variances has been met, be it resolved that variation order number 2511 be granted subject to the one condition. Thank you. That being read, I can get a show of hands from Council for those in support of variance 2511 under Kaufman. That is unanimous and therefore is carried. Then we'll go to item 5.3 that's variance 2510 under Ibo and if I can get a mover and a seconder for that one please. Melinda and Andy. We have zoning variance 25-10. The proposal is to permit the construction of an accessory building to be located closer to the roadway than the front wall of the principal building as per section twenty five zero six b within the a r agricultural restricted zoning district. This is located at twenty seven oh thirty four czar road in the north west half of ten twelve five. Mr. Humboldt is requesting council's approval to allow for the accessory building being a forty eight by fifty by with a ten foot high wall to be located within the front yard. The proposed accessory building as is shown having a front yard setback of two hundred and eighty feet from czar road and would be located northeast of the dwelling shown on the site plan provided. When facing south off czar road, the accessory building would be difficult to see with the existing vegetation and tree line. Based on the submission provided and the site inspection conducted, I have no concerns with the placement of the accessory building. If council were to consider this variation, I would offer the following condition. Number one, that the applicant obtain the required municipal permits. Thank you, Mr. Mayor Terry. Mr. Doucette, would Mr. Hebeau be in the audience? Is there, Mr. Hebeau, anything that's read by Dan here? Is there any questions you want to add to that at all? Okay, merci. Then what we'll do, we'll go to the public hearing portion under for inquiries. Those in the audience and online, and I don't see any hands, then we'll go to those in favor and or those in opposition in the audience or online, and I see nobody. Any questions from council at all? Same thing, no questions are there. Then I'm satisfied the public hearing portion has been met and no further questions will be allowed, and it is closed. We'll read it And we'll have a vote on variance 2510. Whereas a public hearing has been conducted under the Planning Act to consider an application filed by Marcel Himbo and Christine Pingatori, owners of the property located at 27034 Zora Road for a variation of the Springfield Zoning By-law number 0801. Whereas Council is satisfied that the requirements of Part 6 variances has been met, be it resolved that variation order number 2510 be granted subject to the one condition. With that being read, variance 2510, can I get a show of hands? That is unanimous and is therefore carried. Then we'll go to 5.4, that's conditional use 2511 under hay bow. There can I move our secretary please? Patrick and Mark. We have conditional use 25-11. The proposal is to permit a temporary additional dwelling being living quarters within an accessory building on the land providing accommodations for the owner's father as per section 83-322 within the AR Agricultural Restricted Zoning District. This is located at 27034 Zora Road within the northwest quarter of 10125. Mr. Himbo is requesting Council's approval to allow for the temporary additional dwelling on the land due to Mr. Marcel Himbo. The father with his current health concerns have the ability to live on the same property as their son and family, which will be assisting in providing care and assistance to Mr. Marcel Himbo when needed. As shown in the site plan provided, the owner will be constructing a 2,400 square foot accessory building located on the east side of the property. The accessory building will consist of a portion of a storage garage and the other area will be the temporary additional dwelling. Once the temporary additional dwelling area is no longer required, the living area within the accessory building will be converted back to an increased storage area within the accessory structure. Based on the site plan provided, the temporary additional dwelling is located approximately 450 feet from the existing single family dwelling and will be 280 feet from Azor Road. If Council were to consider this conditional use, I would offer the following five conditions. Number one, that the owner shall obtain the required municipal permits. Number two, that the immediate family member, Mr. Marcel Himble, shall be the only occupant of the temporary additional dwelling. Number three, that the temporary additional dwelling shall be converted back into an accessory building when no longer occupied by Mr. Marcel Himble. Number four, if there are any land transfer, the temporary additional dwelling must be converted back to an accessory building prior to the possession date. And number five, this order shall expire and become null and void on December 31st, 2029. Thank you, Mayor Terian. Thank you, Mr. Bo. Anything else you want to add at all to that? It's good. Okay, and then we'll open it up to the public hearing portion now for inquiries in the audience or online. I see nothing. Then open it up for those in favor and or those in opposition in the audience or online. And I see none. Any questions from Council at all? Glenn? Yeah, I have one question for Development Officer. It says December 31st, 2029. I thought that the all additional temporary dwellings were five years. They are. I'm counting 2025, 26, 27, 28, 29, including this year. Unless council wants to make it to 30. No, and then I also thought that there was a clause that we loosely add that it would come back and be renewed like a... It will expire. That's what the expiry date is for. So it's an automatic renewal. We track that to see if the occupant is still residing there. Nope, fair enough. I just took it as four and a half years. If council wants to make it... That's fine. Councilor Miller? Oh, sorry, go ahead. Got you off the knees. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. A question for the applicant or maybe the development officer. Do you know what type of dwelling you're going to have there? In other words, there is some concern, not necessarily with your application, but others, that people slap up these buildings and they aesthetically look pretty unattractive. And so I just want to ensure your neighbors and others aren't going to come to me or to council and say, you know, this guy has slapped up a building and, you know, it's nice that it's for his father and stuff. I support that, but the aesthetics, like we don't have any details of what kind of building, what it's going to look like or anything like that. Mr. Himble, if you can come to the front here. We've got thousands of people online that are listening to this. Billions? Yeah, so basically it's going to be just a square shop, 10-foot walls. It's going to be vinyl-sided, probably in a dark green, shingled roof that's going to look like a regular residence. And then I'm just taking the 50-foot dimension, I'm taking about 12 feet and just splitting it off. And that's going to be my living quarters. And then the balance of it is a... and whatnot. So yeah, I wanted to blend into the surroundings also. It's a beautiful little spot there, lots of evergreens, and I'm trying to make it so that it fits in there, and that's what I'm shooting for. And quite frankly, you can't see it from anywhere. The south neighbor, none of the neighbors can see it. So I think you're fine. Yeah, and I would agree with you. I saw your locked configuration. I know Zora quite well. So yeah, I don't think it'll blend in quite well. Yeah, and that's what I'm shooting for. Yeah, the other question is, and maybe this is development officer information, but how does that building tie into his, I assume septic lagoon and or? No, it's just going to be a holding tank. Again, it's only me in there. So I'm putting in a holding tank, drilling a well, and that's it. It's pretty basic. I'm simple. Great, thanks. Any other questions? No other questions. And I'm satisfied then that the public hearing portion has been met and no further questions will be read. And then we'll read the variance or conditional use, I should say, and then we'll vote. Whereas a public hearing has been conducted under the Planning Act to consider an application filed by Marcel Himbo and Kristen Pingatori, owners of the property located at 27034 Zora Road for a conditional use under the Springfield Zoning Bylaw number 0801. Whereas council is satisfied that the requirements of Part 7 conditional uses has been met, be it resolved that conditional use order number 2511 be granted subject to the five conditions. Thank you. With that being read, can I get a show of hands of those in support of conditional use under 2511? It is unanimous and is carried. That's the conclusion of the public hearing portion. Then we'll go to the Planning matters. The first one will be 6.1, and that's a request for letter of concurrence for Rogers Tower under an address in Pine Ridge there. Can I get a mover and a seconder for that, please? Melinda and Patrick. I can give a quick brief. The report was provided to Council for a communication tower off Pine Ridge Road within 12124. It's going to be a 51.5 meter, 170 foot tower that Scott Telecom Services on behalf of Rogers Communication is requesting. It says Scott Telecom Services has explored other towers within the area, and they stated they weren't able to find any other suitable locations to co-locate. Telecommunications is regulated by the federal government, but they still have to obtain a letter of concurrence from the municipalities to ensure that the municipality is on board with this proposal. During the 30-day notification, newspaper ads and circulation letters were done. We did receive a phone call from Ms. Gail Chepako. She had concerns related to the health concerns regarding the communication tower. I advised her to contact Scott Telecom Services that they would be more versed in Health Canada's safety standard code 30 or code 6. I did not receive any other inquiries or written comments based on the notification. They are requesting Council's letter of concurrence. So if Council were to consider this application, I would offer the following resolution. Whereas Rogers... Would you like me to read it, Colleen? No, okay, I won't read the resolution. I'm not sure if Michelle Klein is online, if Council has any questions. It doesn't appear to be. Okay, is that the end? Thank you. Was there any questions? Deputy Mayor had his hand up. Yeah, I guess, you know, I have a little concerns with this tower. Just again, I looked at it in great detail. I tried to look online. I was hoping that the applicant or somebody was online to help us out with this. But again, we can go back for more information. But I went to look on the Health Canada Safety Code 6, and I couldn't see anything specific to how far of a distance there is on Code 6 from the tower to the closest resident. And that, and you know, again, I could have just not found it. But if there was some clarity on that, that would be helpful. Secondly, I know we've done tower. Again, we've had applications with towers in that area. And there's been concerns from residents. And I've received a phone call from a resident or two and with some little bit of concerns. So when I did look at this, I also looked at it, it is in our secondary plan. And our secondary plan does go in that area, you know, which could end up being five acre lots in the future. So you know, is that tower really in the right spot being that that could happen too? So I think, you know, again, just on the end that I've done the research on, I have some questions to this. And then thirdly, then I have, you know, I guess, you know, I drove Around the area again, just to get familiar again, because I was familiar with the area before being the councillor in that area. And what I saw was Terrace's tower there. There's that big tower there in the pit area. And I just don't see why these, again, I don't understand. And I guess if somebody was online, they could help us understand why they just not trying to work out something with that tower there. And I just, I have many questions and I don't have any answers. So I guess that's where I'm at. Well, my opinion, if we haven't got somebody to answer our questions, even just from the one councillor, I know Councillor Miller had his hand up and I have a few questions there as well. But I think for the record, we may as well ask the questions and I'm more of the opinion that we should adjourn this for more information. But go ahead, Councillor Miller. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I did some research as well with the National Cancer Institutes, as well as the United Nations who have electoral magnetic field radiation standards and that are attributed throughout the world and so forth. But I would agree with you, Councillor Fuel and Mayor, that we should probably postpone this for more information. And secondly, I want to put it on record that yes, residents have called me expressing concern about the location. And I think there could be potentially additional locations, the residents who spoke to me are concerned with property values beyond how that would impact, but not only that, but of course, the health concerns and just the appropriateness of it. But I think Scott Telecom and Rogers should have the courtesy to at least answer some of these questions to help us guide us through it and the residents themselves too. So I would concur with what you say about potentially postponing. Yeah, I do. Postponement there. Everybody have a consensus to postpone this? Go ahead, Andy. Yes, I will. Additionally, I'll ask how many towers we have in that area, if they can work together. Do we know if it could be presented to the council for the next meeting that we're going to see how many towers is there? Yeah. If it's feasible to them working together. Thank you. Yeah, I'm going to end it off right here. I just find that if we have this matter here, they should have the courtesy to be present for us to ask questions. Nobody here is an IT guy when it comes to this kind of stuff here. So I find it really not very good that they can answer our questions. So this is going to delay it there. That said, I think we'll defer this for further questions and further information. Then unless there's other questions there, I got a mover and a seconder to adjourn. Melinda, you got a question? When we went to the planning conference, we had a presentation done by the group. I said. Yeah, I said. Do we have his name? Do you know? Yeah, I believe we have his name. Alan Pollack. Yeah, that's the gentleman that did it. Maybe we can do a phone call to him or something just to get clarity on the whatever. On the health regulations. Yeah, I could see if I could find him online or speak with Mr. Pollack. Yeah. Okay, then with all the questions being heard and answered, I think if I can get a mover in a second. Melinda and Andy, and then at 6:34 we will close the planning agenda for April 24th. Thank you very much.