Call the Clearwater City Council meeting to order Monday, January 9th, 2023 at 7 p.m. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Some of us could stay standing for the bill of good ways. I was wondering if that was going to happen. I think it's the first time. All right, so we're going to do the oath of office, and if it's okay, we'll do it together. So after we do the start and say your name, we'll just pause for a second to catch up for Liz today. And we've got some folks taking photos, too. The paper's not usually here, but they usually afterwards ask for the recording and ask for photos. So can you just raise your right hand and go ahead and read the oath of office? The oath of office for the state of Minnesota, counties of Wright and Stearns, everybody go with me. I, Andrew Lawrence Weal, do solemnly swear or affirm that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the state of Minnesota and that I will discharge faithfully the duties of the office of mayor for the city of Clearwater, Wright and Stearns counties, the state of Minnesota, to the best of my judgment and ability. Thank you. Thank you. Before we get started with the approval, some introductions. Obviously, everyone in the gallery can see our names, but there's just a couple of people that either work to the city that aren't always here or are contractors. So I thought we'd start with our engineer, just do a quick introduction. Yeah, hi everybody. Justin Kanasa with Bolton & May. So I've been city engineer personally here in Clearwater for about at least three or four years. Bolton & May has been your city engineer for more than that since the early 2000s. Happy to be working for you and getting to know you better. We'll do the fire chief real quick. Mike Geller, I've been a resident for 16 years and also on the fire department for 16 years. Took over as fire chief January 1 of last year, so 2022. So just over a year under my belt as the fire chief. We'll skip over to deputy because you get a whole report to yourself and go to public works here. Yeah, I think we have two public works. John Schmidt, public works supervisor. I've been with the city for right around 20 years now. Okay, now it's so easy. We have three more. Perkin Bauer, public works, 10 years. Thank you. Sarah and Doug, would you mind introducing yourselves? Yeah, I'll go. Sarah Johnson, the accountant for two and a half years. Doug Petty, a resident of Clearwater for over 60 years. I've worked here for 17 years. Thank you. I'm Dave Anderson with Kennedy and Graven, a law firm in Minneapolis. We are city attorney. I'm the city attorney for Clearwater. in 2021. I'm a shareholder at the firm and I represent I think eight cities now. The city attorney and we specialize in municipal law so that's what our firm does. Congratulations to the new council members and thanks for working with everybody. Thank you. I think you all know Anita. I'm the city administrator. Looking for a motion to approve the agenda. Motion made by Member Lumen. Is there a second? I'll second. I'm going to give that one to James tonight. Is there any discussion? All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Abstentions? Motion carries. Wright County Sheriff's Report. I started in June so I'm pretty new. I've been up here serving Clearwater since June-ish. This past month the traffic stops have been pretty normal. There's a lady who's been coming through and she's from Stearns County and Oka County. She's been stealing from Colburn's liquor stores. I got her today so that's good. Nothing too crazy up here in Clearwater. It's a good town. I enjoy serving up here. January 17th will be my last day up here. I'm moving to Monticello. It's been a pleasure serving up here and thanks for having me. Thank you. We're kind of the training ground for new deputies. Opening up the floor for public forum. Is there any public forum tonight? All right. Can you introduce yourself to the council, please? Yes. Hello, my name is Sarah Kansa. I live at 915 Isabella Avenue. I just had one little concern over, as I was looking over the agenda tonight, concerns over two of the committee nominations that were made. I was informed by this office that there were multiple applicants for the vacancies on the planning and parks commission. So I guess I'm a little confused as to why one person received two of those nominations in those spots. So I guess I would ask that the city council tonight would maybe ask the mayor for an alternate in one or both of those positions. Anything else from public forum? Closing public forum. Is there a motion to approve the consent agenda? Is there a second? Second for Mr. Schwinghammer again. Is there any discussion on the consent agenda? All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Abstentions? Motion carries. Old business. Approving extension of rugby field lease agreement. This is on page 51 of your packets. And if you need a confirmation right here, typically it's been a five-year lease agreement. It's up for extension, but then they asked for a 10 instead of a five this time. Does that summarize it correctly? Correct. I don't know exactly how long they've had a lease with the city, but the last contract prior to this one was for five years. And so the rugby club and St. Cloud asked for this extension and asked for it to be 10 years at this time. I think it must be at least 10 years because they were there before I joined Parks. That was eight years ago. So I would guess 10 or 15 at the minimum, based on their renewal. So they're asking for 10. They usually do 5. Can you tell us, they pay... They pay $1,000 a year for use of the fields at El Dorado Park. And they pay for both port-a-potties, correct? And they pay for... Yeah, they added a handicap. Or something. Yeah, and it wouldn't be a port... The city doesn't do a port-a-potty out there. Not that I've ever heard, right? We did until they took over. Okay. So we don't have to pay for the port-a-potty. They maintain two port-a-potties. One's a disabled port-a-potty, which was used when we started doing those events this summer. Not we, the agency, we did those events, but the music in the park and the looms in the park. And it was nice having bathrooms there, especially with little kids. And then they pay $1,000 a year. So is there any thought, or does somebody want to make a motion to approve this? Do they have a schedule when these events will take place? I cannot remember. They do. I believe that it was in... Was it on our website, or is it on their site? It's on their site. They didn't give us a schedule. They didn't give us a schedule, but there's usually a ball team that wants a schedule. Can that be added in the contract? That's what I asked before approving it, is basically an annual schedule should be... We do for the rubber cabinets. Would you accept approval contingent upon the schedule so we can approve it tonight still? Contingent upon schedule being... Can I ask a question? Yeah. You can always approve it conditioned on the term that they provide the city a schedule annually being added. Then once Anita or staff has that language, everybody has the authority to sign it. And then is there a way to have it put on the calendar, the city? website calendar just so people would be able to look at the calendar and see okay they have, they're going to be here on Saturday or something like that? I'm not sure about the ability to update. I mean we would do our best and this has been the difficulty right now with the ball team and everybody, basically the Lions rentals and everything, we just simply don't have any staff to just update the calendar all the time. We do try to do it monthly and keep it up to date as best we can. Hopefully when we get the new staff that was part of that position was to manage some of our social media accounts and things like that. And the rugby team does put it on their Facebook and then they put signs out like you know event here today, rugby here today, so I mean you could see it at least while you're heading towards the park if not. I think they would give it to us, I mean I think it's more, I mean if we get a dead schedule and we could just scan it in and post it on the news we could definitely do that, that wouldn't take any time, it's really more of a manually going in every single calendar, you have to manually load each and every event. But just add a rugby schedule tab. We could add a rugby link and just put a PDF. Something like that would be awesome just so people know like hey go here if you want to see what days the rugby team is going to be having a game or something like that. I don't know like I have to look back to July 22, they have like the river cats is there, the building is rented for lines. It's just like some of the amount of time it takes to update the calendars. When you had the concern about the schedule are you okay with our council's recommendation? So I would approve it contingent on the schedule being available and then approved annually by the council prior to the year. What do you mean by contingent? So we can see what their schedule is every year. So you want to be okay with 10 years? I'd be okay with 10 years as long as if they give us the dates each year. Okay. You want to try your hand at a motion? Sure. So I motion to approve contingent on a annual schedule being given and approved by the council. Would you accept a friendly amendment to say the schedule is given to the council annually? And they approve? Yes. Okay. So there's a motion to approve the extension of the rugby field lease agreement for 10 years contingent that the schedule is provided annually. Is there a second? Second by member Lula. Is there discussion? All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Abstentions? Motion carries. This isn't a page on the packet for the next item, but I'm going to give Anita a second to write down that motion. Because the next thing is her report. So we're going to give her a minute. Or is there? I just want to clarify. So the motion was, the original motion was approved. Contract contingent on them having an annual schedule approved by the council. Amendment by Lawrence that they provided the schedule, but that it doesn't need approval. The council is provided, and then that was accepted. And then seconded by Lula. Is that correct? Yes. The second item is basically just an update of the council asked to have a monthly update on this item. So we've been working with Mr. Brian Kelly on code enforcement for several months. And the council wanted an update each month as progress is being made. And really there hasn't really been an update since last month's meeting. It was the end of the year. Some staff were out, myself included. The status right now is his lot combination has been submitted. The staff are reviewing that for approval right now. I did Obama's property. Several vehicles that were there previously have been since then removed, so he has made some progress and the ball's kind of in our court and he's waiting to get to it. So I don't know if folks have questions on that. Again, I guess for the new council members, if you want any more detailed history, I think last month's packet included a really long staff memo that kind of gave an overview of the history of that property. It might be worth taking a drive by yourselves if you're interested. I actually put before the map for you, thanks for asking. Did we set a deadline for what they find in the context of the fact? At the last council meeting, it was the council wanted a report each month just to make sure progress was being made and a deadline hadn't been set because the ball was kind of in our court on the next steps of his lot combination. Which is basically allowing them to like keep moving forward. That's the part that takes some time. And that's the part that got delayed last year because the clerk saying he couldn't get a surveyor and he gets it to the council and... That's why we asked for a monthly report because you can be sure you speeds are not doing, not complying with the city's request and we come back here and we say, hey, you know, we've talked about this three months in a row and there's been zero progress. And so we come back and talk about that. So it doesn't get, I don't want to say forgotten about, but just not resolved. I mean, his major issues that he had were violations of the outside storage because he had two separate lots. He doesn't have a principal structure on his second lot, so he really couldn't have any outside storage there at all. So by combining his lots, it cures a large share of the co-violations he had. Has he finally gotten that taken care of yet or is that still in the air? He submitted his application and his survey, and we're working on reviewing that right now. Thank you. The next agenda item is community center survey template and funding, page 55. This is a pretty good synopsis of the history. There's been a community center history that's probably going back 10 years. It's just kind of, I mean, it has to go forward or not go forward at some point. Well, it's kind of going forward. Do you want to give a better summary than that, Anita? Yeah, I guess, I mean, it's the community center discussion of community center predates me. Since this summary is basically what's happened since I've been here, which is we've been trying to work with Park Commission to try to move forward a design plan so that the council actually has something to work from. Somewhere along the line over the last year, it appeared from, with the election, with so many new people coming to council meetings, the council started to get feedback that there were some residents that didn't necessarily think the community center was a great idea. And so the council determined that maybe it was time to do a new survey of residents to kind of see where the support level was. The last time one had been completed was in 2013, so it was pretty outdated. And the EDA had volunteered to take this on. And I guess after the EDA put together what they thought was a reasonable survey, a courtesy copy was given to the Park Commission and Park Commissioners had feedback. They wanted it to go in a different direction. And that feedback was brought back to the EDA who said, basically, thank you, we're willing to make some adjustments, but we're not willing to go as far as the Park Commission wants us to, and it really felt like the council should wait. Which board they want to manage the survey and what source of funding do you want the survey funding to come from, whether that's the EDA's marketing community outreach budget or the sales tax fund for where this community center fund would come from for building it. Can you remind me why we kicked it from Parks to EDA for the survey? Primarily because the EDA had funding set aside to do marketing and community outreach, and so they wanted to go and do a reach out for residents survey and add to the paper to residents, and they volunteered to take it on. Okay, and the Parks didn't like how EDA... Right, and I know that Parks last met in December, but they haven't met... They didn't meet in November because they didn't have any business on their agenda. Okay, and obviously they met in January. Yeah. Well, my opinion is we need a survey, whether or not it's perfect, we need a survey out there to see if this is even a direction that the residents want to go. Especially when you see the taxes and stuff that's in there. Yeah. So the question is, is the council kind of sending out this, okay, sending out the survey as is, or did we want to kick it back to the committee? I mean, I've read over it and I have no issues with it at all, honestly. I think we should just send it out as is. Same. It's just going to give... We're looking basically into the, yes, we want it or no, we don't, and that's the main part we're looking for. So we can either move forward with the community center or honestly move forward with our list of projects that we can do. Yep. There's a bunch of them. I agree. Looking over it the couple times I have no issue, especially since it says what amenities would you like in a community center design, if we're going to go that way. I mean this is for the benefit of the members that weren't here for the last two years to see all this work that the park commission put into it. Would there be a way to in like if they're opposed to the concept of having a community center or event centers, one member had mentioned in our agenda packet, would there be a way to let's say if somebody's opposed to have like where they could make a suggestion for something else. So that was one of the park commission's suggestions was instead of having in this instead of giving them a list of items that park commissions already considered and determine weren't feasible, instead give them a list of the things that are authorized by the statute by the legislation, and you know say if you don't want a community center which of these other authorized uses would you give us to spend them, and let them weigh in that way. Probably a good idea because that money has to be spent with in certain ways, there's no point in teasing somebody else. So a community can't have that funding, they would have to go and not that the community center is going to be able to be funded with half cent sales tax, I mean, nowhere close to it so it's still going to have to go back to a levy for the city to pay for somehow, but it is nice to say that this funding will support something. I don't mind the idea of having a, other ideas or comments section line, I mean, It might be good to come up with some of the ideas that you can't do anything with, but it's good information to have regardless. It's at least somewhere where we can gather, we have the information to kind of pool together and think from there. So do you want to see a line added for comment down below? Well, there is another. I think what the park commission was saying is it doesn't do us a lot of good to relist all of the items that they've already considered and determined and you couldn't afford to do. They just felt like it made more sense to list alternatives that are listed in the legislation. And you can still have an other, you know, a responder could come back, still come back and say, you know, we want whatever. But if it's not... I guess you can do whatever you like. Or is that too confusing? I think the park commission is just saying, we did all of this work and we looked at all these different alternatives and we looked at and hired an architect and put together this design template that had all of these different amenities in it and it was going to be $9 million. And the city just can't afford to issue a bond for $9 million. We don't have any ability to pay that back. And so I guess, I just, I think the park, and I don't want to speak for the park commission. I mean, they all had very strong opinions and they didn't all agree necessarily with each other. But the general gist of it was, it doesn't make sense to go back to the community, to the residents and say, well, would you like to have things that we've already eliminated, even though we can't afford them? That makes sense. So how long is this list of things that we can't afford? It's not a paragraph. I mean, we can fit it into this template to keep it to like one week. So what's the major speed bump amending us? Make a motion to amend us with this and see if we agree. You have two advisory boards who are just in disagreement on the purpose and what the service should look like. So you're the decision makers on it. The staff are going to do whatever the council wants. I guess go. So park commission is going to do this. We have to dip into the park commission, the house sales tax, and EDA already has funding for this, correct? For the survey. For the survey, yes. For the survey. Well, let's just keep it with the EDA. But we can still ask the EDA to eliminate these boxes from basketball courts to child care center and put in different wording. True, yeah. They're just kind of two questions. Should we amend the survey per the park commission comments or not? And if so, where should the funding for the survey go? And they're kind of two. They're related but separate issues, really. Well, I don't sit on the parks, and I didn't sit on EDA when this came to that. I know the parks has worked on this for, I mean, on and off over eight years. So I would like to say, I would like to make a motion to send the survey out through the EDA with the amendment of the parks listing, the amendment of the parks suggested wording on what amenities we'd like to see in the community center design. That wording that the parks recommended. Everything else, keep as it's in the EDA survey. That's my motion. I'll second it. There you go. Thank you. Another discussion?
All in favor?
Aye.
Opposed?
Abstentions?
Motion carries.
I have one other
old business that's not on here if you want to kick it
to the end and let me know. Did you have
an update on the
hearing today? Yeah, it does look a lot
like courts. Okay, thank you.
Alright, new business, page 73
approving annual
appointments
and if you don't mind I'll go with my logic
about what names I put where
and why for the board to approve.
First of all, I want to thank everybody in the
community that applied. This is
all the applications we got
from people in the community that
wanted to serve on different boards.
So,
I wanted to use everybody that volunteered
in the community and so placed people
where either they were requested
or where maybe their application
lended their skill set to
and or where
we needed somebody. For example,
we have a member of the community who said
I'll go where you need me and we
needed where nobody else applied.
So we looked at the application
and said the skills match, let's see
if that person will do that job. So thank you for that.
That was phenomenal. We had so many
volunteers for that.
And then
one of the, oh sorry.
It's sort of categorized.
It's sort of categorized. We've got
two pages listed in this resolution.
In this top part, these are kind of our
general appointments that are required
by statute. These are our
city consultants, our
official depositories,
official newspaper, things like that.
And I
had not heard that the council
was interested in making changes to any of these
at this point. Typically
if we make changes here, we
go through like an RFP process and solicit
bids, things like that,
quotes from people.
And then the next section and the committee assignments, these are really more staffing, like staffing council appointments for the most part. And then the second pages where we kind of have the boards listed out and what residents are put on each board, if that makes sense. I don't know where you want to. So I kind of went over the residents on the boards and commissions. We do have, and then for the council, four people up here wanted to all be on one board. And we've never had that. So usually it's like, hey, who wants to sit on this board? Or we have a couple people that are interested, but we have four. So it was the planning commission, which can be a pretty sometimes challenging meetings. And so I went with the most experienced council member on there that wanted to be on the board is the name I put in there. And then everybody else who went with the application either where they requested or again based on their application, some skill set that we felt was needed. There is, I did not place anybody on the EDA. Nobody on council requested to be on EDA. So now's your chance to shine. A little fun fact about EDA, it is for courting businesses, keeping businesses in town, helping businesses grow. So if you are interested in planning commission, but didn't get on there, or of course we haven't voted on this yet, but maybe you want to think about throwing your hat into the EDA ring. And it means about, it's usually a pretty solid hour. They usually, they usually wrap in that hour. It doesn't because quite a few of the members are businesses in town, so they have to get to their job. And we had 8am, I think we had one meeting last year that went past nine. And you usually know by the agenda, it's going to go a little bit longer. Or if you have to excuse yourself if you really have to go. So that is a thought, I'm looking for a volunteer. Otherwise I will sit on that one again. I like a diversity in the boards, I like people and that's why every citizen that applied. We don't want every board to be made up of two or three council members. You want your citizens to sit there and I'm already on fire relief and sewer authority because the mayor has sewer authority, but I'd be happy to sit on EDA if nobody wants to volunteer for that one. Do you know what times the other? Yes, so Planning Commission only meets as needed, and so if we have a development or we have an ordinance or something that needs their attention, I meet. So they don't meet every month. They meet at 7pm. Typically they are the second or fourth. The fourth Tuesday unless we have to have it on the second Tuesday. So normally fourth Tuesday, second Tuesday if there's additional business or anything. Park Commission normally meets the second Monday of the month at 5.30 right before the city council meeting. This month they delayed it because they haven't been appointed yet, but normally they meet at 5.30 monthly. Sewer authority meets every other month at 5.30 and we alternate locations between here or Clearlake City Hall. The EDA meets the third Tuesday of each month at 8am. The fire relief board meets quarterly and as the mayor said, that is the mayor, the fire chief and myself are statutory members of that so that we're in it. The fire commission is a new board that just went into effect with our new fire contracts and right now they've only been meeting once or twice a year. That board consists of a member from the city and each of our two contracted townships and then myself and the fire chief go to those as well. And when's the last time you met? Was it when you came on maybe? June. And it's primarily to discuss, you know, the fire department's budget on fire calls and on the needs for the department, things like that. So unless there's really an issue, there's no need for that board to meet, but they, they're very flexible. They've only been meeting once or twice a year and we typically will try to figure out a date and a time that works for everybody. So it's real flexible. And then some of these other groups are more standing committees like Clear Valley or Wright County stuff. You know, they, I don't know when they all meet, they meet whenever, they meet whenever they tell us they meet. The Clear Valley Business Connection meets about quarterly. They try to go forward. And again, nobody sits on that one, but you're welcome to go. You get food at that one, so there's that. We typically want, we typically try to have someone from the EDA go on that. Our EDA president went last year to those meetings. Since the EDA is the official member of that group, they kind of act like a chamber, so the city can't really be a member of our EDA. So with that logic and talk in mind, are there questions or anybody want to jump on the EDA? I can talk with my people. I can talk with my work and possibly see about it. Okay, I'll probably look at my calendar because I'm guessing we don't. I think, well, I know the Clear Valley meets this Thursday, but I think I'm guessing they meet before the next meeting, so we should send somebody to at least the next meeting. They meet, it was the second or third Tuesday, I'm sorry. The third Tuesday of the month? The EDA? Yeah. Meets the third Tuesday. So we would like somebody at least there for the next meeting if possible, so if you're waiting to talk, we should still put somebody on for the next meeting. Yeah, that really could work for me. The 17th? Probably not. Okay. I was going to be on my way back to Detroit. Anybody else want to go for now? It is a All right, so moving on, anything else before we go to a vote or discussion or thought? And then, I don't know, the second page, this is kind of the board, the board is suggested as board appointments. And so there's basically one council member, unless the board requires more than one, like the sewer authority requires the mayor and the council member. And then there's an at-large, which Clearwater would really love to have in that seat so that they have voting control on that board. Well, I can go a little farther than that. The sewer authority is made up of Clearwater and Clearlake. So there's the Clearlake mayor, Clearlake council member, and then the Clearwater mayor and the Clearwater council member. That fifth person is a voting person, obviously, and it switches every other year per the bylaws as to what city the resident comes from. If we don't have a member from Clearwater, there is a person from Clearlake that will sit, but then they control the board. So just keep that in mind, because only every other year can we get that. And 80% of the sewer is paid for by us. So it makes sense that we take advantage of our years of control. Just a thought. Is there a maximum number of people that can be on these boards? Usually for voting purposes, yes. Like, yes, you can go to any of these meetings or commissions even if you don't sit and you're welcome just to talk during public comment like a resident, but we don't want, the boards are advisory boards and of a diversity of opinions, you don't want like a second city council meeting happening off to the side.
Other questions?
Not a lot to talk about.
Looking for a motion to approve the annual appointments as stated.
Okay, I would like a motion to approve resolution 2023-01 approving the annual appointments.
Is there a second? Second not. Second by Member Schwinghammer. Is there a further discussion? Just a small note that Member Luman volunteered to go to the EDA for the January meeting and we'll bring that item back in February.
I was just going to also just note for council members that this board does these appointments every year and so if you're on one board this year, that doesn't mean you can't move to another board next year or the year after that as a council member, they can rotate through it and that's probably a good idea that people just to get experience.
Further discussion?
All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Nay. Abstentions? Motion carries and for the members of the community that are out there, thank you and congratulations. I think we have Bud, we have Sarah, anybody else I'm missing that's out there? Thank you guys for stepping up and helping out. Look forward to emails from Anita on when your next meeting is. I think that's your authority set. We already know that one. and the mission both will be next Tuesday, the 17th. It's the 17th. And then the Sewer Authority meets the third Thursday in February, whatever. I think it's February 16th. 5.30 at Clear Lake. 5.30 at Clear Lake. Thank you. All right. Going on to page 76. Approving amendment to the personnel policy. I went right from boards to that. All right. Can you walk us through this one? No. So the city council and the EDA during the budget process were talking about a staff ad and it was determined that it would be a full-time position but it would be 32 hours a week, like a Monday through Thursday position. And after that decision was made and the budget was approved, I can't remember who, possibly the mayor, somebody caught the fact in our personnel policy that our full-time positions are 36 hours a week. And so that new position would not be full-time under our personnel policy. So we are requesting a change to the personnel policy to make it 32 hours rather than 36 so that the new position we're looking to hire would be a full-time position. And then the real thing isn't so much the hours, it's really more the benefits that if it doesn't consider full-time under the personnel policy, it doesn't qualify for most of the benefit package. And it was intended to a benefit-earning position. The only question I have is on page 79. I could have been reading this wrong, late in the game here. Is that a typo? Did you mean to put a 32 when you crossed off the 36? Sorry, top paragraph, page 79, under work hours. Right there? Is there supposed to be a 32? That's just a wording that I'm... We just worded it to be the employer's regular number, because some of the staff that we have right now do work 36 hours. So basically, their work hours are whatever their normal regular hours are. Thank you. I knew I wasn't reading that quite right when I could. I think a question could be, well, would it make more sense to just make that position 36 hours? Possibly you could, but that is not what it was budgeted for. So it would be... I mean, that's an alternative. What is the fact about the balance for the extra eight hours? Just curious. Depends what you get to at the moment. Well, I mean, okay. $2,000. Yes. $2,000. $200. But to counter that, if they are part... One thing, they would be part-time. And so imagine once they're full-time, they qualify for benefits, and you're going to get a different pool of candidates, possibly, based on our salary that we advertise for it. And there's some comments, members that didn't think the salary was going to be competitive enough, but if we get benefits... There's concern that it might not be already under some of the other cities around us that are filling the same position. So isn't it... I think I just posted another new one. Yeah, so it's a good plan. We're talking benefits, we're talking like insurance. Correct, health and dental. Right, for the retirement plan that's through the state, even if you're part-time, you qualify for that if you work. But that's sent by the state, number of hours that you work. Thank you. So they still would... All right. So if this gets implemented that they would qualify at 32 instead of 36. Does this affect anybody that's currently employed that's not making it to full-time status? No. What is the position? The new position is a community development specialist and it would be part-time working city hall and part-time working with the EDA. So the EDA was a new board that was brought back after several years of not having one and they have never yet hired a staff so they don't basically all of their work is either getting delayed or it's being done by the current city staff as we have time to do it which we usually don't. I'm going to make a motion approving the amendment for the personnel policy as stated in the patent tonight. Seconded. Thank you. Is there any further discussion? All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Abstentions? Motion carries. Committee report, mayor and council. Mayor, I met with Wright County Mayors meeting but I think I did that before for the summer meeting so nothing new to report from the Wright County Mayors. Nothing new to report because I've been mayor for an hour and 45 minutes again tonight so I'll go with that. Council, have anything to report? Welcome council. Thank you. Boards since December. Has any boards met? Parks didn't, Stewart didn't, planning and zoning didn't, EDA met. I don't have a report though, I did not get a report. Mainly they talked about the community center survey, which we already discussed, and then they also talked about, they're still considering signage proposals for digital signage, and that's going to be discussed again this month because we didn't have all the proposals yet. And there's a Clear Valley Business Connection meeting this Thursday, and we normally give you details, I can send them to Anita, and that's all for the board, did I miss anything? Fire Relief Fund. Oh yes, not a ton to report, and I don't know if probably much interest, except for how the Fire Relief will parcel out who's in charge of the different events that are handled in the city of Clearwater. The sign-up sheet's already out, right Chief, and I'm on it, I believe, right? I think they pretty much filled it out, haven't they? Oh man, so I'm for sure one of them. Okay, so I'm just a different thing, volunteer for like parades and events and Easter egg hunts and Santa on a firetruck and all that stuff. That was about it, and how about the pensions, the pension attendance policy, which was a significant issue, but we've been working on it for two years, so that has been solved, more or less. It's going to the annual meeting for approval by the whole membership, and I mean the intent of it was to try to get the Fire Relief rules to match up with the city's fire department rules, just to make it more consistent. That meeting is on the 25th at 7 p.m. if anybody wants to go to a very packed annual meeting. And also who cooks what food when before what meetings, I thought was an important discussion. I figured I should let her up too. That was it. So, staff? I have a couple of things. The first one is there are a couple of things from the League of Minnesota Cities. In addition to the new council member training, which we've already talked about, the League also does offer a couple of online courses. One's a mini course and one's a longer one for folks looking to learn more about planning and zoning type topics. And so, the staff want me to mention this. If there's new council members that want to attend these, I can send you the information. Also, any new planning commissioners, it would be nice for people to attend that as well. The second one is, the mayor has talked about this in the past as well, but as far as things like lobbying at the Capitol, both the Coalition of Greater Minnesota Cities and also the League of Minnesota Cities both have two separate what they call legislative days at the Capitol where they invite council members, staff to come down to the Capitol and talk with our local representatives and talk about what issues are impacting our city. And the League of Cities just opened their registration for their city day at the Capitol. It's going to be Thursday, March 9th. So, if there are people that are interested or want to look at their calendars and see if you're interested in attending that, we can get registered for that. Can you register me? Thank you. And I'll send both of these out to the council so you guys can look at them as well. The other update that I had was we attended, I say we, myself and attorney Christina Cruz-Jennings from Hannity-Graven attended a hearing in Buffalo today with Mr. Strakasola to talk about code enforcement on his property. The judge asked us to step outside and make an attempt at settlement. able to come to any agreement with Mr. Casola, and the court subsequently appointed him an attorney and rescheduled us out until March so that he'd have time to consult with an attorney and see if we can't find some other way to get an agreement before that date. What date was that? I'm sorry. It was continued out to, I think it's March 20th. We asked for a date that was after our council meeting so that if once he has an attorney, we're able to find some way to come to a settlement, that I would have time to come back to the council before we went back to court. So that's a sense of that. I don't know if anyone has questions on that because it's kind of been happening. It's been going on for a very long time. It was in litigation before I worked here, before Dave was here. And it's not the first time around. It's the second time the city was on the court with him on two different properties. So you want to know a summary? Yeah, kind of a brief summary. I can give you a brief one. In late 2020, the judge issued an order that effectively gave the city permission to go out on his property and clean up and charge him back for it. There was some resistance from him. And there were also some delays. From my understanding, staff had a difficult time during the middle of the pandemic finding a contractor that was able to squeeze that type of work in. So there was a couple of delays. Finally, there was somebody hired and we were scheduled to go out and do the work. Staff didn't feel comfortable sending that contractor out there because of the demeanor and the resistance that the homeowner was providing. So the goal now is we're asking the court to hold him in contempt for violating that. That previous order. Really, we just want to be able to do the work. And we want the judge to say, let the city do this, or you're going to sit in jail. Civil penalty. The point of it is, you hold the keys to your own jail cell. You don't have to sit in jail and just follow your judge's order. That's our goal. We just want the judge's order to be carried out. And that's the hearings that we're now appearing in front of the judge on. Because jail time is technically on the table, he's entitled to a public defender under the Constitution, which he did qualify for. That attorney was appointed today. Now they just have to sign somebody from the D.C.'s office to represent him. So the delay between now and the next hearing is to give his attorney time to come up to speed and hopefully reach out to us. That's some client control and communicate with those clients so we can just get this done. So that's the gist of it. The goal for us has always just been, we want to clean up the property. And because he has been unwilling to do that. The city and really object to a delay just because, practically speaking, there's nothing we're going to be able to do before March anyway with two feet of snow on the ground. More importantly, two feet of snow on top of the untitled files and stuff. But the other thing is, we're very hopeful that once he has an attorney assigned to a case and they cite someone who he views as being on his side and can explain it, that maybe we'll be able to get it to a settlement. Does the guy have a junkyard going on in his yard? It's on Main Street. Yeah, pretty much. If you look at a beacon map, an aerial, it's the one. The wooden fences with the big wing wheels. You can't really miss it. The notch. All right, well, thank you for the update. Went from a trial in the morning to hearing. Thank you. Anything else from staff? No, I think so. The other community development position, it's been sent to, it's been posted. I think we've got a deadline for the end of this month so that we hopefully can conduct interviews and have a person to come back for the Council to consider next meeting. We are also in the process of interviewing or getting ready to interview candidates for our open sewer authority position. For the plant operator, we just finished scoring apps and are getting ready to schedule interviews for that. So hopefully we'll have a candidate for the February meeting for that as well. Thank you. And the next regular meeting is February 13th. I already won. Council member might not make it. So if other council members are on the edge, just know that as soon as possible. We always like to make quorum, like to know that as soon as possible. Anything else for the good of the cause? Is there a motion to adjourn? I'll make a motion to adjourn. Is there a second? I'll second. Discussion? All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Abstention? This motion carries. Thank you. That was nice.